Conan tensorflow-lite blogpost (#236)
conan-io/conan-io.github.io: _posts/2023-04-24-tensorflow-lite-conan-cpp-mobile-ml-guide.markdown

---
layout: post
comments: false
title: "Real-Time Pose Detection with TensorFlow Lite and Conan in C++"
meta_title: "Real-Time Object Detection with TensorFlow Lite and Conan in C++ - Conan Blog" 

> meta_description: "Discover how to leverage TensorFlow Lite and Conan package manager for seamless integration in C++ to create cutting-edge real-time pose detection applications."

Reviewer: I agree, it would be good to have one of these keywords , maybe "Machine Learning" in the title itself, and I think "Conan" can be removed from the title, the post is general enough, Conan is an implementation detail, not core to the article.

> meta_description: "Discover how to leverage TensorFlow Lite and Conan package manager for seamless integration in C++ to create cutting-edge real-time pose detection applications."

Author: I changed it, have a look at the new one please

`PrintInterpreterState`, a debugging utility useful for inspecting the state of the
interpreter nodes and tensors.

{% highlight cpp %}

tflite::ops::builtin::BuiltinOpResolver op_resolver;

std::unique_ptr<tflite::Interpreter> interpreter;

tflite::InterpreterBuilder(*model, op_resolver)(&interpreter);

if (interpreter->AllocateTensors() != kTfLiteOk) {
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to allocate tensors");
}

tflite::PrintInterpreterState(interpreter.get());

{% endhighlight %}

#### Read and transform the input data

Now we have our interpreter ready to feed it with some data and run the inference, but
first, we have to adapt our data to the input accepted by the model. In this case, if we
check the
[documentation](https://tfhub.dev/google/lite-model/movenet/singlepose/lightning/tflite/float16/4)
for this specific model, we can see that the input must be in the form of "an uint8 tensor
of shape: 192x192x3. Channels order: RGB with values in [0, 255]".

Although not necessary, we could access the input tensor from the interpreter to confirm
the tensor input size, which in this case is `[1,192,192,3]`. The first element is the

> batch size, which is 1 as we are only using one image as the input of the model.

Author: I comes from the previous paragraph: "an uint8 tensor
of shape: 192x192x3. Channels order: RGB with values in [0, 255]" and after that I explain that the first 1 is because the batch size is 1 image. Do you think that's enough? I could try to extend a bit the info

int image_height = frame.size().height; // 360 in our example

int square_dim = std::min(image_width, image_height); // the min dimension is 360 in our case
int delta_height = (image_height - square_dim) / 2;   // so this is 0 
int delta_width = (image_width - square_dim) / 2;     // and this 140

cv::Mat resized_image; // this is the input for the model

// crop to 360x360 and then resize to 192x192
cv::resize(frame(cv::Rect(delta_width, 
                          delta_height, 
                          square_dim, 
                          square_dim)), 
           resized_image, 
           cv::Size(input_width, input_height));

{% endhighlight %}

The final step is to copy the data from the resized video frame to the input of the
interpreter. We can get a pointer to the input tensor by calling `typed_input_tensor` from
the interpreter.

{% highlight cpp %}
memcpy(interpreter->typed_input_tensor<unsigned char>(0), 
       resized_image.data, 
       resized_image.total() * resized_image.elemSize());
{% endhighlight %}

This diagram summarizes the whole size conversion pipeline for the video frames.

<p class="centered">

>     <img  src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/post_images/2023-04-24/input-output-tensor-size.png" style="display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;" alt="Tensor sizes"/>

Reviewer 2: the diagram is a lifesaver here to fully understand the process. I'd suggest to enumerate the process at the beginning. Something better explained like:
- We have an input video of this size.
- But our model only accepts this size.

To connect the dots we have process the image following the next steps:
- crop
- resize
- ...

Author: I'll try to clarify!

</p>

#### Running inference

After preparing and copying the input data to the input tensor, we can finally run the
inference. This can be done by calling the `Invoke()` method of the interpreter. If the
inference runs successfully, we can recover the output tensor from the model by getting
`typed_output_tensor` from the interpreter.

{% highlight cpp %}

if (interpreter->Invoke() != kTfLiteOk) {
    std::cerr << "Inference failed" << std::endl;
    return -1;
}

float *results = interpreter->typed_output_tensor<float>(0);

{% endhighlight %}

#### Interpreting output

Each model outputs the tensor data from the inference in a certain format that we have to
interpret. In this case, the
[documentation](https://tfhub.dev/google/lite-model/movenet/singlepose/lightning/tflite/float16/4)

> for the model states that the output is a float32 tensor of shape [1, 1, 17, 3], storing

Reviewer 2: I see I am struggling to understand the code because I am missing concepts like "tensor", "shape", "channel"...
I think it will be better to add a brief explanation of this concepts at the introduction of the library
```suggestion
for the model states that the output is a float32 tensor of shape [1, 1, 17, 3], storing
```

Author: Good idea! Let me check what I can do

take the confidence of the output into account, filtering those results that have a
confidence below the 0.2 threshold.

{% highlight cpp %}

const int num_keypoints = 17;
const float confidence_threshold = 0.2;

const std::vector<std::pair<int, int>> connections = {
    {0, 1}, {0, 2}, {1, 3}, {2, 4}, {5, 6}, {5, 7}, 
    {7, 9}, {6, 8}, {8, 10}, {5, 11}, {6, 12}, {11, 12}, 
    {11, 13}, {13, 15}, {12, 14}, {14, 16}
};

void draw_keypoints(cv::Mat &resized_image, float *output)
{
    int square_dim = resized_image.rows;

    for (int i = 0; i < num_keypoints; ++i) {
        float y = output[i * 3];
        float x = output[i * 3 + 1];
        float conf = output[i * 3 + 2];

        if (conf > confidence_threshold) {
            int img_x = static_cast<int>(x * square_dim);
            int img_y = static_cast<int>(y * square_dim);
            cv::circle(resized_image, cv::Point(img_x, img_y),
                       2, cv::Scalar(255, 200, 200), 1);
        }
    }

    // draw skeleton
    for (const auto &connection : connections) {
        int index1 = connection.first;
        int index2 = connection.second;

>         float y1 = output[index1 * 3];

Reviewer 2: why multiply by 3 here? 😕

Reviewer 3: The `output` is a list of the form `[x1, y1, conf1, x2, y2, conf2, x3, y3, conf3...]` and "connections" is just saying which xN, yN, confN groups connect to which ones. The *3 is the way to pass between "group" index and actual index in this list

        float x1 = output[index1 * 3 + 1];
        float conf1 = output[index1 * 3 + 2];
        float y2 = output[index2 * 3];
        float x2 = output[index2 * 3 + 1];
        float conf2 = output[index2 * 3 + 2];

        if (conf1 > confidence_threshold && conf2 > confidence_threshold) {
            int img_x1 = static_cast<int>(x1 * square_dim);
            int img_y1 = static_cast<int>(y1 * square_dim);
            int img_x2 = static_cast<int>(x2 * square_dim);
            int img_y2 = static_cast<int>(y2 * square_dim);
            cv::line(resized_image, cv::Point(img_x1, img_y1), 
                     cv::Point(img_x2, img_y2), cv::Scalar(200, 200, 200), 
                     1);
        }
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

> ### Using Conan to manage TensorFlow Lite and OpenCV dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installing TensorFlow Lite and OpenCV dependencies and building the project
```

Consuming the TensorFlow Lite and OpenCV libraries using Conan is quite straightforward.
If you have a look at the *CMakeLists.txt* of the project, it has nothing particular about
Conan.

{% highlight cmake %}
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.15)
project(pose-estimation CXX)

find_package(tensorflowlite REQUIRED)
find_package(OpenCV REQUIRED)

add_executable(pose-estimation src/main.cpp)

target_link_libraries(pose-estimation PRIVATE 
                      tensorflow::tensorflowlite 
                      opencv::opencv)
{% endhighlight %}

To make Conan install the libraries and generate the files needed to build the project
with CMake, we simply need to create a *conanfile.py* that declares the dependencies for the
project.

{% highlight python %}
from conan import ConanFile
from conan.tools.cmake import cmake_layout

class PoseEstimationRecipe(ConanFile):
    settings = "os", "compiler", "build_type", "arch"
    generators = "CMakeDeps", "CMakeToolchain"

    def requirements(self):
        self.requires("tensorflow-lite/2.10.0")
        self.requires("opencv/4.5.5")
        self.requires("libwebp/1.3.0", override=True)

>         self.requires("eigen/3.4.0", override=True)

Reviewer: Needs an update? Examples contain only:
```
def requirements(self):
        self.requires("tensorflow-lite/2.10.0")
        self.requires("opencv/4.5.5")
```

Author: totally!

>     def requirements(self):
>         self.requires("tensorflow-lite/2.10.0")
>         self.requires("opencv/4.5.5")
>         self.requires("libwebp/1.3.0", override=True)
>         self.requires("eigen/3.4.0", override=True)

Author: ```suggestion
    def requirements(self):
        self.requires("tensorflow-lite/2.10.0")
        self.requires("opencv/4.5.5")
```

    def layout(self):
        cmake_layout(self)
{% endhighlight %}

As you can see, we just declare the dependencies in the `requirements()` method of the
ConanFile. We are also declaring the `layout()` for the project as `cmake_layout`, as we
are using CMake for building. You can check the [consuming packages tutorial
section](https://docs.conan.io/2/tutorial/consuming_packages) of the Conan documentation
for more information.

Now we can use Conan to install the libraries. It will not only install
*tensorflow-lite/2.10.0* and *opencv/4.5.5*, but also all the necessary transitive

> dependencies. Conan will attempt to install those packages from the default

Reviewer 2: maybe enumerate transitive dependencies to show conan value?

Author: I finally attached a capture of the whole graph, but not sure if that's too much

[ConanCenter](https://conan.io/center) remote, which is the main official repository for
open-source Conan packages. If the pre-compiled binaries are not available for your
configuration, you can also build from sources.

{% highlight bash %}
conan install . -s compiler.cppstd=17 --build=missing
{% endhighlight %}

> Please note a couple of things:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A couple of things to take into account:
```

- We are passing a value for the C++ standard, as the *tensorflow-lite* library only works
  with a standard higher than 17.
- We are passing the `--build=missing` argument in case some binaries are not available
  from the remote.
- If you are running Linux and some necessary missing system libraries are missing on your
  system, you may have to add the `-c tools.system.package_manager:mode=install` or `-c
  tools.system.package_manager:sudo=True` arguments to the command line ([docs

>   reference](https://docs.conan.io/2/reference/tools/system/package_manager.html)).

Reviewer 2: add the full command below for easy copy/paste

Author: I prefer to just leave the hint there, because they may not be necessary or maybe you just need one of them, as this may modify the user's system packages I prefer they understand what they are doing if they add the arguments rather than providing something to copy and paste.

you can use CMake presets:

{% highlight bash %}

# Linux, macOS
cmake --preset conan-release
cmake --build --preset conan-release
build/Release/pose-estimation

# Windows
cmake --preset conan-default
cmake --build --preset conan-release
build\Release\pose-estimation.exe
{% endhighlight %}

Otherwise, you can add the necessary arguments for CMake:

{% highlight bash %}
# Linux, macOS
cmake . -G "Unix Makefiles"
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=build/Release/generators/conan_toolchain.cmake
-DCMAKE_POLICY_DEFAULT_CMP0091=NEW -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build .
./pose-estimation

# Windows. Assuming Visual Studio 17 2022 
# is your VS version and that it matches 
# your default profile
cmake . -G "Visual Studio 17 2022"
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=./build/generators/conan_toolchain.cmake
-DCMAKE_POLICY_DEFAULT_CMP0091=NEW'
cmake --build . --config Release
pose-estimation.exe

{% endhighlight %}

### Conclusions

Now that you're familiar with the basics of using TensorFlow Lite in your applications,
you can explore other models. Additionally, having experienced the ease of installing and
using libraries like TensorFlow Lite and OpenCV, you're now well-equipped to create more

> complex applications incorporating additional libraries. To search for all libraries

Reviewer 3: Love this bit! Nice
